# Divya-S_Projects
It contains the project details and source code
Recognition is identifying or distinguishing a thing or an individual from the past experiences or learning. Similarly, Digit Recognition is nothing but recognizing or identifying the digits in any document. Digit recognition framework is simply the working of a machine to prepare itself or interpret the digits. Handwritten Digit Recognition is the capacity of a computer to interpret the manually written digits from various sources like messages, bank cheques, papers, pictures, and so forth and in various situations for web based handwriting recognition on PC tablets, identifying number plates of vehicles, handling bank cheques, digits entered in any forms etc. Machine Learning provides various methods through which human efforts can be reduced in recognizing the manually written digits. Deep Learning is a machine learning method that trains computers to do what easily falls into place for people: learning through examples. With the utilization of deep learning methods, human attempts can be diminished in perceiving, learning, recognizing and in a lot more regions. Using deep learning, the computer learns to carry out classification works from pictures or contents from any document. Deep Learning models can accomplish state-of-art accuracy, beyond the human level performance. The digit recognition model uses large datasets in order to recognize digits from distinctive sources. There are diverse challenges faced while attempting to solve this problem. The handwritten digits are not always of the same size, thickness, or orientation and position relative to the margins. The main objective was to actualize a pattern characterization method to perceive the handwritten digits provided in the MINIST data set of images of handwritten digits (0‐9).

